h1. HTMLTag plug-in for Notepad++

Written by vor0nwe (Martijn Coppoolse) - http://martijn.coppoolse.com/software/
 using Delphi 10.1 Berlin
Part of the Npp-plugins project - http://sourceforge.net/projects/npp-plugins/
Originally hosted on http://fossil.2of4.net/npp_htmltag/

Currently maintained by "Robert Di DiPardo":mailto:dipardo.r@gmail.com

h2. Introduction

This plug-in provides three core functions to Notepad++:
* HTML and XML tag jumping, like the built-in brace matching (Ctrl+B / Shift+Ctrl+B), and selection
  of tags and/or contents.
* HTML entity encoding/decoding (example: @é@ to @&eacute;@)
* JS character encoding/decoding (example: @é@ to @\u00E9@)

It originated in these requests on the Plugin Development forum on SourceForge.net:
* http://sourceforge.net/forum/message.php?msg_id=4284078
* http://sourceforge.net/forum/message.php?msg_id=4443898


h2. Installation

===============================================================================================

h3. _Warning_

_*Always* check your Notepad++ version at "? > Debug Info" before installing plugins_
_Notepad++ 8.3 is the *minimum required* version for 64-bit releases of HTML Tag 1.2 and newer_

You can safely use any 32-bit version of HTML Tag with any 32-bit version of Notepad++

===============================================================================================

As usual:
Extract the DLL and accompanying files to the plugins folder under
@%ProgramFiles%\Notepad++@ (or wherever you're running Notepad++ from) or @%AppData%\Notepad++@, and (re)start Np++.


h2. Usage

| Ctrl+T | to select the matching tag |
| Ctrl+Shift+T | to select both tags and the entire contents in between |
| Ctrl+Alt+T | to select only the contents between tags |
| Ctrl+E | to encode all selected non-ASCII characters to their HTML entities |
| Ctrl+Alt+E | same as Ctrl+E, but encodes line breaks as well |
| Ctrl+Shift+E | to dEcode all selected HTML entities |
| Alt+J | to encode all selected non-ASCII character to their Javascript entities |
| Alt+Shift+J | to dEcode all selected JS entities |

All commands are available under the Plugins menu item 'HTML Tag'; the shortcut keys can be adjusted
with the shortcut mapper.

bq. For release versions up to and including 1.1.0, visit http://fossil.2of4.net/npp_htmltag
New releases are available at https://bitbucket.org/rdipardo/htmltag/downloads
Note that v1.1.0 was the last release with an ANSI version

_Up to version 1.1.0, plugin release bundles include all of the following:_

| HTMLTag.dll | The 64-bits unicode version of the plug-in, for Notepad++ version 7.0 and up. |
|HTMLTag_unicode.dll   |  The 32-bits unicode version of the plug-in, for Notepad++ version 5.1 and up.|
|HTMLTag_ansi.dll    |    The 32-bits ANSI version of the plug-in, for Notepad++ versions up to and including
                        version 5.0.3. Note that this version will not be supported after v0.4.0.|
|HTMLTag-entities.ini  | This file contains the list(s) of entities that will be processed. For now,
                        only the list headed with [HTML 4] will be used.  This can be adjusted if
                        you want to use other entities.|
|HTMLTag-readme.txt    |  The file you're reading now.|

h2. History

* 1.1.0 - 2017-09-04 20:15
** Added: option to encode line break entities as well "[689eef6cee]":689eef6cee
** Fixed: decoding a JS escape reduced the selection by one each time "[e717ed1de5]":e717ed1de5
* 1.0.0 - 2017-02-19 16:03
** Added: 64-bit version
** Several tiny bugfixes
* 0.6.0 - 2015-01-20 21:20
** Fixed: matching closing tag was excruciatingly slow since the 'new' regular expression engine.
* 0.5.0 - 2012-06-10 20:22
** Fixed: crash on close of Notepad++
* 0.4.0 - 2011-09-03 22:46
** Added: JS encoding
* 0.3.2 - 2010-11-07 19:30
** Fixed: working workaround for change in Scintilla 2.2 with selection not being released
** Changed: when selecting contents only, don't select whitespace at begin and end of contents
* 0.3.1 - 2010-11-03 18:00
** Fixed: workaround for bug in Np++ 5.8.3 with selection not being released
** Added: busy indicator in Windows 7+ task bar button (can be disabled in Config\HTMLTag.ini)
* 0.3.0 - 2009-11-29 20:30
** Added: New plugin command to select tag contents only
** Changed: Removed unnecessary units, reducing the file size of the DLL by 300KB
* 0.2.2 - 2008-08-24 21:20
** Added: Unicode version for Notepad++ 5.1 and up
* 0.2.1 - 2008-02-22 21:07
** Fixed: matching in XML files was case-inconsistent
** Fixed: matching end tag did not take special characters in tag name into account
* 0.2 - 2007-10-20 20:10
** Tag detection is now case-sensitive in XML files
** Added entity encoding/decoding
** Uploaded the source to the Npp-plugins projects on SF.net
* 0.1 - 2007-08-05 20:00
** Initial publication


h3. To do

* "[Request#1848503]":1848503 Add a command to close the open tag at the current location
* Add command to encode entities in the contents only (only apply encoding when not inside tags;
  leave valid tags and entities alone)
* Add command to select tags only (and leave the contents out of the selection)
* Make it play nice(r) with PHP & ASP tags (either highlight those separately or ignore them)
* Add option to encode entities 'as-you-type'
* Add option to close tags 'as-you-type' (type '</' and the rest will be inserted automagically)
* "[Request#2147949]":2147949 drop down a list of tags after '<'
* "[Request#2147949]":2147949 drop down a list of attributes on space after a tag


[689eef6cee]https://fossil.2of4.net/npp_htmltag/info/689eef6cee
[e717ed1de5]https://fossil.2of4.net/npp_htmltag/info/e717ed1de5
[1848503]https://fossil.2of4.net/npp_htmltag/tktview?name=a3fc2e7864
[2147949]https://fossil.2of4.net/npp_htmltag/tktview?name=43695affda
